Sirach.
Chapter 32.
Have they made you ruler of a feast? Don’t be lifted up. Be among them as one of them. Take care of them first, and then sit down. 
And when you have done all your duties, take your place, that you may be gladdened on their account, and receive a wreath for your good service. 
Speak, you who are older, for it’s your right, but with sound knowledge; and don’t interrupt the music. 
Don’t pour out talk where there is a performance of music. Don’t display your wisdom at the wrong time. 
As a ruby signet in a setting of gold, so is a music concert at a wine banquet. 
As an emerald signet in a work of gold, so is musical melody with pleasant wine. 
Speak, young man, if you are obliged to, but no more than twice, and only if asked. 
Sum up your speech, many things in few words. Be as one who knows and yet holds his tongue. 
When among great men, don’t behave as their equal. When another is speaking, don’t babble. 
Lightning speeds before thunder. Approval goes before one who is modest. 
Rise up in good time, and don’t be last. Go home quickly and don’t loiter 
Amuse yourself there and do what is in your heart. Don’t sin by proud speech. 
For these things bless your Maker, who gives you to drink freely of his good things. 
He who fears the Lord will receive discipline. Those who seek him early will find favor. 
He who seeks the law shall be filled with it, but the hypocrite will stumble at it. 
Those who fear the Lord will find true judgment, and will kindle righteous acts like a light. 
A sinful man shuns reproof, and will find a judgment according to his will. 
A sensible person won’t neglect a thought. An insolent and proud man won’t crouch in fear, even after he has done a thing by himself without counsel. 
Do nothing without counsel, but when you have acted, don’t regret it. 
Don’t go in a way of conflict. Don’t stumble in stony places. 
Don’t be overconfident on a smooth road. 
Beware of your own children. 
In every work guard your own soul, for this is the keeping of the commandments. 
He who believes the law gives heed to the commandment. He who trusts in the Lord will suffer no loss. 
